For years,
the ORW base has been the undisputed
foundation of efficient data center infrastructure.
But the rapid evolution of artificial intelligence has
fundamentally changed the physical requirements of computing.
Next generation AI workloads demand massive scale
up networks and larger silicon footprints.
Engineers need the physical space to distribute
multiple GPUs evenly across the compute tray.
This balanced distribution prevents severe thermal
hotspots and optimizes complex network routing.
Within the boundaries of a traditional 600 millimeter wide rack,
these physical layouts become a severe bottleneck.
The community needed a new standard.
Enter the open rack wide or ORW.
This new specification
literally
doubles the width of the standard rack to 1200 millimeters
or in inches expanding from 21
to 42.
This expansion allows engineers to build massive
interconnected AI platforms without compromising on modularity,
but this shift is about much more than just physical space.
The transition to ORW is a necessary evolution
toward high power racks.
This wider format provides the crucial volume
required to route complex liquid cooling manifolds,
seamlessly integrate high power racks,
shared baseline power shelves,
and support the extreme payload weight of fully populated AI clusters.
By anticipating the physical demands of next generation silicon,
the Open Compute project ensures that scalability
and efficiency remain available to everyone.
Let's take a look inside the new frame.